# Commodifying (my) skillset
I consider myself very lucky for I have been able to learn a lot of diverse stuff through various random projects, happy encounters, overloaded volunteer work and overly enthusiastic ventures. I had armies of people teach me in all imaginable arrangements: mentors in home-laboratories, lovers speaking unknown languages, schools in and outside of natural systems of multiple countries, mass universities of capitals and cult-like art institutes hidden away [in the countryside]. I rarely say 'no' but 'please often if it comes to new tasks or projects, and even if there is not a thing to answer to I love building - quite often only for the sake of it.
The upside is clear: I now know how to butcher a chicken, mix a liveband, movie or theater, set up the IT infrastructure of an office, improvise curriculum and activities for children, design and manufacture electronic appliances, organize a festival, write and deploy a mobile app, build furniture and even whole kitchens...
The problem is, I have zero idea of making money. I have no degrees, certificates or diplomas of any sort that would package these skills and knowledge into conveniently "shoppable", labeled boxes. I realized - as I was appending 'able to plug in calbes' to my "CV" - that for transactions to happen I would have to commodify my imagined skillset into discrete packages: "network engineer", "on-site support technician", "photovoltaics installator", "lighting technician", probably even "nurse". As I'm starting to understand people who buy stuff (especially people - "services") rarely care about the [parts] of said [bought] stuff - which is completely contrary to how I usually shop around. I always thought that looking deeply at our requirements makes the procurement a lot more efficient:
I can just buy [examples]
or pure sugar instead of homeopathic medicine
Apparently I have to learn the opposite mindset. My problem with that is that I have learned almost everything exactly because of the lack of these exclusive boundaries. I was always just a guy hanging around and as such my curriculum and job description included anything looking remotely fun (or that needed to be done).
This post is in part obviously a cry for someone who is good at productifying stuff. But it is also a call to myself and to others in similar shoes (reading biographies of coolstuffdoers hints at these less structural paths are prevalent among ["famous"] people) to try (and then try better) to create some packages of ourselves, let that be for consulting or for job interviews, because most people rarely buy "1784 nights spent chucking redbull till 4am" with the notable exception of it being sold as a datascientist offering
And on the other hand as customers please do try to "de-productify" the stuff you buy, because that leads to a higher level of ownership. Yes you are buying a laptop, a boat, a house, but all of that is just random materials hacked together by someone who does it more often than you. Disassemble stuff and look into people.
And assemble yourself to be able to sell a bit of it.
